#summary The jSCEP Manual
#labels Phase-Support

<wiki:toc/>

= About jSCEP =

This page will be used to capture the requirements of *all* jSCEP documentation from a user's point of view.

== Subprojects ==

 * api
 * client
 * server

== Requirements ==

 * [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Java 5] 
 * [http://www.bouncycastle.org/latest_releases.html Bouncy Castle Provider]
 * [http://commons.apache.org/codec/ Commons Codec]

== Roadmap ==

= Getting jSCEP =

 # Binary [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/downloads/list Download]
 # Build from [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/source/checkout Subversion]
 # Maven (*not supported*)

== Binary Packages ==

This is the simplest way to try out jSCEP.  Here's a list of the [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/downloads/list?type=Library current binary packages] available for download.

== Source Code ==

You can use jSCEP by compiling the source, or by downloading one of the [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/downloads/list pre-compiled JARs].

=== Source Packages ===

We ~~should~~ now offer source code packages.  See ~~issue 8~~ [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/downloads/list?q=*sources.jar here]: 

=== Building from Source ===

==== Prerequisites ====

To build, jSCEP from source, you'll need the following tools:

 * [http://subversion.apache.org/ Subversion]
 * [http://maven.apache.org/ Apache Maven]

==== Getting the Source Code ====

You can checkout the trunk (what about other [Branches branches]?) by running the following commands on your command-line:

{{{
user@host:~$ svn checkout http://jscep.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ jscep-read-only
user@host:~$ cd jscep-read-only
user@host:~/jscep-read-only$ mvn install
}}}

This will check out the source code from the jSCEP subversion repository, followed by building each of the project artefacts and installing them into your local Maven repository.

=== Browsing the Source ===

If you don't have subversion, but you'd like to view the source, you can do so by [http://code.google.com/p/jscep/source/browse/ browsing the repository] using the Google Code viewer, or by using the subversion [http://jscep.googlecode.com/svn/ web interface].

== Quick Tour ==

This should be on the front page...

Features of SCEP

 * Certificate Access
 * CRL Access
 * Certificate Enrollment

= Community =

== Mailing Lists ==

== Getting Involved ==

=== File an Issue ===

=== Write a Test ===

Especially if you have access to a SCEP-capable server.  It would be good to provide a simple tool to allow adopters to test out jSCEP against their particular server.

=== Submit a Patch ===

=== Become a Committer ==

== References ==

References to the [http://jscep.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/api/target/site/apidocs/index.html API] should be made where possible.

== Examples of Good Open Source Documentation ==

 * http://www.oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/documentation.xml